---
permalink: /
title: "About"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - "/wordpress/"
  - "/wordpress/index.html"
---

{% include base_path %}

I’m Tang Ying, a professor at the University of Electronic Science and Technology of China, San Diego with appointments in the [Department of Communication](https://communication.ucsd.edu) and the [Halıcıoğlu Data Science Institute](https://datascience.ucsd.edu). I am also affiliate faculty in [Computer Science & Engineering](https://cse.ucsd.edu), [Computational Social Science](https://css.ucsd.edu), and the [Institute for Practical Ethics](https://ipe.ucsd.edu), where I lead IPE's [Working Group on Data Governance & Accountability](https://ipe.ucsd.edu/research/data-science.html). 

Our research topics include stochastic process, machine learning, nonequilibrium statistical physics, information theory and quantitative biology. Combining analytical and numerical approaches, the ultimate goal is to uncover simple theoretical principles that could help understand complex nonequilibrium dynamical processes.
Check our recent publications in [Google Scholar](https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=-5bbqWsAAAAJ&hl=en). To discuss any interesting science, feel free to contact us at [jamestang23@gmail.com](jamestang23@gmail.com)

My research areas encompass stochastic dynamics, machine learning, statistical physics, and open quantum systems. I am honored to be a recipient of a national-level young talent program award. I earned my Bachelor's degree in Applied Mathematics from [Zhiyuan College, Shanghai Jiao Tong University](https://zhiyuan.sjtu.edu.cn/html/zhiyuan/)in 2013, and completed my Ph.D. in Physics at the same institution in 2018,mentored by Prof.[Ping Ao](https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=JQyz-BoAAAAJ&hl=en).Between 2018 and 2021, I contributed as a postdoctoral researcher at the University of California, Los Angeles,supported by Prof. [Alexander Hoffmann](https://www.signalingsystems.ucla.edu/) and have been serving as an associate researcher at the [International Academic Center of Complex Systems](https://zkgyy.bnu.edu.cn/), Beijing Normal University, Zhuhai since 2021. My publications have appeared in prestigious journals such as [Nature Machine Intelligence](https://www.nature.com/natmachintell/), [Nature Communications](https://www.nature.com/ncomms/), [Physics Review E](https://journals.aps.org/pre/), Nature, and Nature Methods. In 2023, I was recognized as the Peng Huanwu Center Young Visiting Scientist by the Chinese Academy of Sciences. Among my recent research accomplishments are the development of evolutionary neural networks for tracking the evolution of high-dimensional stochastic reaction networks, the creation of a computational framework for analyzing the dynamic mutual information of time series, and the discovery that magnetic fields can amplify free energy in non-equilibrium quantum systems without performing any work.

## My work and research

My research includes

### Machine learning stochastic dynamics:
Machine learning and stochastic dynamics have deep connections and cross-feed each other. We recenetly have developed machine-learning approaches to investigate the time evolution of stochastic dynamics: (1) propose the first approach of using the neural network alone to solve the chemical master equation; (2) characterize a type of dynamical phase transition in nonequilibrium statistical mechanics; (3) learning noise-induced transitions by multi-scaling reservoir computing.

### Dynamical information theory:
Inferring mutual information from time series data remained challenging as the possible trajectory configurations increases exponentially with the number of time points. We develop a computational framework to quantify the dynamical mutual information of intracellular signaling process, and summarize the recent progresses in this review on quantifying information by machine learning.

### Nonequilibrium and quantum thermodynamics:
As a remarkable advance in nonequilibrium thermodynamics during the last 20 years, Jarzynski equality connects free energy changes to nonequilibrium work fluctuations. We found that the free energy change through the Jarzynski equality is independent of magnetic field in the classical regime, but can be amplified by magnetic field in driven quantum system. The magnetic field can also be generated by the coupling to the heat bath.

### Stochastic process without detailed balance:
Stochastic transitions are ubiquitous in nature. Based on path integral approach, we develop a scalable numerical approach to calculate transition rates for a class of Langevin dynamics. The computational cost is robust to varying noise intensity, beyond small noise limit. The efficient computations on transition rates enable a broader use of stochastic modeling in complex dynamics, such as cell state transitions.

### Quantitative biology:
To understand the complex behaviors in biological systems across scales, we have attempted to construct minimum models to describe the data and make predictions: (a) we identified computationally a molecular circuit that control necroptosis decisions such that a bimodal death-time distribution can be produced; (b) we demonstrated that chemotaxis in nutrient-replete conditions promotes the expansion of bacterial populations by modeling the physiological effect on bacterial chemotaxis.

## Come and join us

### Positions and Requirements

The research group is dedicated to the interdisciplinary study of machine learning and physics, with future research directions centered around AI for Physics. We are seeking students interested in exploring and developing new research topics, with recruitment being an ongoing process. 

### Planned research directions include:
(1) developing machine learning algorithms to track the evolution of stochastic processes; 
(2) revealing new dynamical phase transition laws in non-equilibrium physical systems;
(3) calculating the rare paths and probability flows for state transitions in multi-stable systems.

We welcome applications from students in physics, mathematics, computer science, or other related fields. Basic requirements:
a. Enrolled in top domestic or international universities, outstanding in research achievements, and having obtained the degree required for the position applied for.
b. Solid mathematical foundation, with priority given to those who have an understanding of interdisciplinary subjects such as machine learning, statistical physics, and stochastic processes.

1.Ph.D. (for Master's graduates, application by examination)

2.Master's

3.Associate Researcher：Qualifications;Capable of conducting independent innovative research; has published several works as the first author in mainstream journals of the discipline.RemunerationBase salary starting from 400,000 RMB/year.

4.Postdoctoral Fellow Qualifications;
Has a clear plan to pioneer new research directions in academia; has published works as the first author in mainstream journals of the discipline.Remuneration;Base salary 300,000-400,000 RMB/year; for those selected for the Postdoctoral Innovation Program or international exchange program introduction projects, the annual salary is 400,000 RMB+.

5.Research Assistant, Intern (second and third-year students)
Qualifications;Long-term intern recruitment, with a basic foundation in mathematics and physics. The goal is to independently complete high-level work over a period of more than one year.

### Research Group Features

1.We seek students passionate about research, capable of independent exploration, sustained commitment, breaking through set goals, and full of curiosity. We also value students' character, honesty, perseverance in adversity, and proactive communication.
2.We offer support for personal career development based on students' interests, a pure research environment, and ample research guidance. Students can discuss and delve deeply into the development of the field and problems with the supervisor, adjusting research directions based on common interests.
3.The supervisor invests a lot of time in detailed guidance for students, resulting in undergraduates publishing high-impact academic papers as primary authors in journals like Nature Machine Intelligence.
4.The supervisor supports and encourages students to exchange and cooperate with academic teams at home and abroad, providing opportunities to participate in international and domestic conferences and exchanges, and supporting further studies. The team members are united and supportive of new group members.

### Application Method：

Contact email:  [jamestang23@gmail.com](jamestang23@gmail.com)

Email subject: "Application for Class of '24 PhD/Master's/Associate Researcher/Postdoc/Research Assistant Application" + "Name" + "School"

Application materials: CV, research achievements, awards, etc., or a brief introduction of oneself.
